fighting between Israel and Hamas is
Raging on in the last 48 hours the Hamas
run Health Ministry in Gaza says more
than 400 people were killed in Israeli
attacks in Gaza City Israel's Army is
engaged in Street to Street combat with
Hamas which is designated a terrorist
organization by the European Union and
United States the latest violence
follows a un Security Council resolution
that fell short of calling for a
ceasefire another day brings more death
and destruction to the Gaza Strip
Israeli strikes hitting residential
areas like here in the southern city of
K
Yunis relatives burying the victims of
the latest
attacks on Friday Gaza Hamas run Health
Ministry said more than 20,000 people
have been killed in the Israeli
offensive so far about 1% of the
territory's
population these people are supposed to
to be safe in their homes and protected
by the law but as a man of the law I
declare that international law has
collapsed we're not allowed to have
faith in any international law it merely
represents the Law of the
weak if Israel were in the Palestinians
position the world would not stand still
and would
act the strikes on Saturday came just
hours after the UN Security Council
approved a water down resolution it
avoids calling for a ceasefire instead
the creation of conditions for a
sustainable truth but the UN Chief and
the Palestinian representative want a
halt to the
fighting this resolution is a step in
the right direction it must be
implemented and must be accompanied by
Massive pressure for an immediate
ceasefire I repeat immediate
ceasefire despite growing International
pressure Israel says any ceasefire would
only help Hamas if this Council seeks to
end hostilities it should start by
supporting Israel's mission of returning
the hostages and eliminating the Hamas
threat and at the very least it must
prevent hamas's
empowerment just as this council is
committed to increasing Aid it should
also be committed to blocking the
smuggling of arms and transfer weapons
to the Hamas
terrorists the UN resolution calls for
life-saving Aid be rushed to Gaza at
scale with Gaza Under full Israeli
bombardment it's unclear if and when
this demand can be
fulfilled Martin rench from the un's
world food program gave us an update on
the humanitarian situation in
Gaza good afternoon Ben yeah I mean it's
really difficult um people in Gaza are
living through hell as we speak they
have nothing to eat nothing to drink no
home anymore um they're prone to
diseases nowhere safe not for them but
also not for our humanitarians on the
ground I mean eight trickles in we still
reach people especially in the South but
more or less on an adhoc basis so Aid is
not flowing inside Gaza as it needs to
be and we don't reach people across the
strip although needs are massive and
actually Aid is needed everywhere what
do you make of the UN Security Council
resolution
it's definitely a welcome step um but as
the Secretary General outlined it's not
enough we need a ceasefire now but
because only when guns fall silent we
can rebuild the humanitarian system that
is basically on the brink of collapse
inside of Gaza you cannot as un we
cannot do our job when bombs are falling
and fighting is continuing that's why we
need these guns to fall silent to
actually help those people wherever they
are um and especially vulnerable people
like you know pregnant women children um
because they need it need the the most
so how does this all fit together with
the the council's call on organizations
like yours to get significantly more Aid
into Gaza while uh there there's no
chance of a ceasefire not even a
temporary
truce well I mean our call is we need
all Crossings open we need much more Aid
because it's only trickling in and as
the Secretary General said I mean we
can't we we there's no there's no use in
counting drugs because the needs are
massive our latest figures actually show
that um there is a loomin famine um in
Gaza and basically everyone is is going
hungry in Gaza um families do not have
enough to eat and more people in Gaza
are facing catastrophic hunger than in
the rest of the world combined I mean
that that number is staggering and that
you know
says basically says it all we need much
more Aid and actually to distribute that
Aid efficiently effectively inside of
Gaza we need a ceasefire because you
cannot you cannot build up humanitarian
system when bombs are falling I I find
it interesting that Israel is not on the
same page as your organization and other
humanitarian groups when it comes to the
assessment of a lack of Aid um why do
those views differ so
greatly that that is a difficult
question I mean we are humanitarian
organization we have people on the
ground we have eyewitnesses every day we
see what is going on and now there is
this famine food security
report um that is basically Beyond
politics it's you know black on white
that the situation is so terrible and
not comparable to any other place in the
world and that is a that is an
independent assessment and again we need
a ceasefire and we need much more Aid
that's the situation we see every day
with our own eyes in Gaza you heard it
from the world food program spokesperson
Martin wrench in Berlin thanks for
joining us
today